---
layout: post
title: AI that plays Osu!
description: AI, Tensorflow, Keras, Pytorch, Python. 
image: assets/images/Osu-Logo-PNG_004.png.jpg
show_tile: false
---

## AI that plays Osu!
I started developing this AI in August 2023, and it now achieves high accuracy in both aiming and clicking. The model was trained using recorded replays, synchronizing video frames with corresponding coordinates and clicks.

Although I originally started the project with Tensorflow and managed to achieve good results, I decided to also learn a little about Pytorch and in the end I made a faster and more accurate version than the one I had in Tensorflow.

### Development and Improvements
Inspired by OpenAI’s video pretraining technique used for Minecraft, I applied a similar approach to train the aiming system, achieving 99% accuracy at almost any level. However, clicking was initially inconsistent, leading me to explore reinforcement learning with Deep Q-Learning, significantly improving its timing and precision.

I originally built the model using TensorFlow, but after experimenting with PyTorch, I developed a faster and more accurate version. Additionally, I tested different architectures, including CNNs (CONV layers), LSTMs, and Transformers, deepening my understanding of their real-world applications.

### My experience
This was my first AI project, and it sparked my passion for machine learning. I’ve explored multiple techniques and architectures, constantly refining the model to improve its performance. Experimenting with CNNs, LSTMs, and Transformers has given me hands-on experience with different neural network structures, significantly expanding my knowledge.

This project has been an exciting and challenging learning journey, and I’m eager to continue exploring AI in gaming and beyond.

### Equipment specs
- Ryzen 5 5500
- RTX 3060 12GB
- 32GB RAM DDR4 3666MHz
- Windows 11 / Ubuntu 24

### More AI that plays Osu!
* <a href="https://clips.twitch.tv/ProudDignifiedDonkeyStrawBeary-DJJ4h0AaHFeaybmi">Clip 1</a>
* <a href="https://www.twitch.tv/axelinsz/clip/ApatheticMoralThymeCopyThis-rVYL0TqNTbPMVrfG">Clip 2</a>
